# Financial-and-Accounting-Analytics-of-Stock-Returns-during-COVID-19-Pandemic-in-2020

2020, which is considered to be one of the worst year among decades, encountered a great economic recession due to pandemic. Stock market unprecedentedly plunged over 30% in mid-March, terrifying most of the investors. Yet surprisingly, full recovery prevailed right after several circuit brakes, which has been regarded as an 'abnormal phenomenon' by some experts. Among the post-pandemic stock market, it is worth noting that overall return varies across companies as well as industries. Some stocks reached all time high in the rest of the year while others still lagging behind S&P500. Difference of stock returns are mostly driven by actions from the one who own them, investors. Stockholders will purchase more if they are confident, and vice versa. Various issues may effects investors' confidence, though. Financial health of a company could be one of those. In this project, we strive to figure out how financial ratios in 2019 influence stock return in 2020 at the industry level. We measure financial data from fiscal year 2019 since it is the only visible report for investors in early 2020.

To conducted our analysis, we collected data across 2500+ companies in the US, including stock return in 2020,  financial data in 2019, and various industry codes, from Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS). We simplify and prepare the data to make it ready for analysis. Stock return in 2020 are separated into two terms, from January to March and from April to December. First term capstures davastaing market loss during the pandemic year as stock reached the lowest point in March. Second term comprises miraculous recovery on the stock market. Also, we processed financial data. Fiscal year 2019 is chosen as it is the only financial statement that are visible to investors. To clean this dataset, we dropped columns whose missing value accounts for a high percentage. We kept remaining columns and dropped their missing values by rows. For industry codes, we evaluated 4 types of classification methods, Standard Industrial Classification (SIC), Norther
